# Elastic GDPR Scanner

The Elastic GDPR Scanner checks Elasticsearch instances for GDPR compliance (ie for presence of PII - Personally Identifiable Information).

The Elastic GDPR Scanner consists of 2 tools:
* the port scanner, that identifies Elasticsearch instances by port scanning the network,
* the GDPR checker itself, that tests Elasticsearch targets against lists of regexes.


**Disclamer: Vincent Maury or Elastic cannot be held responsible for the use of this script! Use it at your own risk!!**


## 0. Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

This piece of python has no other pre-requisite than **Python 3**.<br/>
It should work on any platform.<br/>
For NER usage, the script relies on a [PII detection model](https://huggingface.co/betterdataai/PII_DETECTION_MODEL).

### Get ready!

Just clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/blookot/elastic-gdpr-scanner
```


## 1. Scanning for Elasticsearch instances


### Running the script

Just run it:

```bash
python elastic-port-scanner.py -h
```


The script has several options:
* `-h` will display help.
* `-t TARGETS` to enter a specific target (hostname or single IP or IP range in CIDR format, eg 10.50.3.0/24). Defaults to `localhost`.
* `-p PORTS` to specify the port range (eg `9200-9210,9300-9310`) where Elasticsearch could be running. Defaults to `9200`.
* `-u USER` to set a username to use when trying to authenticate to Elasticsearch. Defaults to `elastic`.
* `-pwd PASSWORD` to set a password to use when trying to authenticate to Elasticsearch. Defaults to `changeme`.
* `-o OUTPUT` to specify the name of the output file in json format. Defaults to `targets.json`.
* `--nb-threads NB_THREADS` to specify how many hosts you want to scan in parallel. Defaults to `10`.
* `--socket-timeout TIMEOUT` to set the timeout for socket connect (open port testing), in seconds. Set it to 2 on the Internet, 0.5 in local networks. Defaults to `2`.
* `--log-file FILE` to specify the name of the file to output logs. Defaults to `es-scanner.csv`
* `--verbose` turns on verbose output in console. Defaults to `False`.

Easy run on a local Elasticsearch:
```bash
python elastic-port-scanner.py -pwd myelasticpassword
```
Or on an Elastic Cloud instance:
```bash
python elastic-gdpr-scanner.py -t myelasticsearchid.europe-west9.gcp.elastic-cloud.com -p 443 -pwd myelasticpassword
```

### Output

The `targets.json` file output from this port scan can be used by the GDPR scanner below.

You can grab the `es-scanner.csv` file generated by this script, as a report. Column titles should be self-explanatory.

## nmap prescan

You could also run the famous nmap port scanner to list hosts and ports before running the Elastic port scanner itself.

First, install nmap, then run:
```bash
nmap -h
nmap -p PORTS -sV --host-timeout TIMEOUT -oG OUTPUT TARGETS
```

For instance:
```bash
nmap -p 9200-9205 -sV --host-timeout 20s -oG out.txt 192.168.1.1-254
```

Then a bit of parsing will extract the Elasticsearch instances:
```bash
awk '      
/^Host: [0-9]/ {ip=$2}
/Ports:/ {
  split($0, ports, "Ports: ")
  split(ports[2], entries, ", ")
  for (i in entries) {
    if (entries[i] ~ /open\/tcp.*Elasticsearch/) {
      split(entries[i], parts, "/")
      print "Host: " ip ", port: " parts[1]
    }
  }
}' out.txt
```

Finally, pass these targets & ports to the Elastic port scanner :-)


## 2. Running the GDPR analyzer

Analyzing for GDPR compliance requires to look inside Elasticsearch documents for the presence of PII.

The simple (and fast) approach is to extract N documents from an Elasticsearch index and search inside them using regexes.

[NER](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Named-entity_recognition) (Named-entity recognition) can also be used to leverage the power of AI to infer the presence of classes of PII. To do so, we use a trained model from HuggingFace ([ref](https://huggingface.co/betterdataai/PII_DETECTION_MODEL)) that covers 29 classes across 7 languages (English , Spanish, Swedish, German, Italian, Dutch, French)!


### Running the script

Setup a virtual environment and install the 2 dependencies:
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install transformers torch
```

The ML model (2GB big) will be installed at first execution:
```bash
python elastic-gdpr-analyzer.py -h
```

The script has several options:
* `-h` will display help.
* `-t TARGET_FILE` to specify the json file to read cluster hosts from. Defaults to `targets.json`. See the `targets_example.json` file as example.
* `-i INDEX` to enter the name of a specific index to scan. By default, the script scans all indices.
* `-r REGEX` to enter a specific regex to look for (if set, cancels running all regexes from regexes.json file).
* `-n NB_DOCS` to set the number of documents (up to 10000) to get from each Elasticsearch index. Defaults to `1`.
* `-o REPORT_FILE` to specify the name of the file to output results. csv or json supported. Defaults to `es-gdpr-report.csv`.
* `--no-ner` is a flag to disable NER scanning, ie only search for regexes. By default, the script runs NER!
* `--nb-threads NB_THREADS` to specify how many hosts you want to scan in parallel. Defaults to `10`.
* `--socket-timeout TIMEOUT` to set the timeout for socket connect (open port testing), in seconds. Set it to 2 on the Internet, 0.5 in local networks. Defaults to `2`.
* `--verbose` is a flag to turn on verbose output in console.

Easy run on 100 documents:
```bash
python elastic-gdpr-analyzer.py -n 100
```
Or analyze the 'test-rgpd' index (see below) with a custom regex:
```bash
python elastic-gdpr-analyzer.py -i 'test-rgpd' -r '[vV]incent.[mM]aury'
```
Or analyze a custom list of targets, a custom regex and a custom json output file:
```bash
python elastic-gdpr-analyzer.py -t mytargets.json -r '[vV]incent.[mM]aury' -o gdpr-report.json
```

At the end of your tests, you may delete the virtual environment:
```bash
deactivate
rm -rf .venv
```

### Testing with a sample document

If you want a test with a true positive, you can connect to an Elasticsearch instance via Kibana dev tools and run:

```json
POST test-rgpd/_doc/1
{
  "id": "abcd",
  "postDate": "2025-03-15T13:12:00",
  "message": "Message lambda contenant par exemple mon nom Vincent Maury et celui de Stéphanie de Monaco qui ne devraient pas être là.",
  "email": "Mon email est vincent.maury@elastic.co (pro).",
  "phone": "J'ai un faux numéro de téléphone : (+33)674642014 et j'espère qu'il n'est pas utilisé...",
  "addr": "Une adresse pro au 128, rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré, 75008 Paris.",
  "iban": "On va mettre un IBAN factice comme FR76 3000 4031 8400 0078 7353 152 pour la France."
}
```

The email and the fake IBAN should be identified by regex matching.<br/>
The 5 PII (name, email, phone, address and IBAN) should be identified by NER testing.


### Report

You can grab the `es-gdpr-report.csv` file generated by this script, as a report. Column titles should be self-explanatory.

Note: this script only scans non-internal indices (the ones not starting with .) so the sum of non-internal indices do not equal the totals of each node.



## Authors

* **Vincent Maury** - *Initial commit* - [blookot](https://github.com/blookot)

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

